bugs: (always compare each new script to the existing one in clickteam fusion)

add block breaking particles
backup now
killing enemies that are above blocks
question mark has a hidden boolean.
make a +1up function when collecting the same power up twice
fire mario
make hitbox smaler when crouching
make power ups, also add lives system and health, breakable brick,question boxes.
maybe change small mario's sprite origin so it doesnt look weird after collecting powerup
use a particle system with breakable bricks
make question marks that spawn enemies
how to make interactive tiles all have one hitbox? because goombas get stuck on bricks sometimes, because seperate box colliders act weird
make animated tilemap
make ui and HUD and menu
crouching with super mario. while in crouching state, a much lower deacceleration value is used!
make invicible state when taking damage, in invincible state you cant stomp enemies
in pipe state (make pipes) inward, outwards, left right up and down.change camera AND cameras active player each time mario comes out of a pipe

dont forget to backup after every important change
******
Tips i randomly thought of:
Use enemie's Turning coroutine for turning platforms

for changing gravity, maybe you can make gravity a positive number, and rotate objects by their LOCAL vector

use camera Dutch value under active virtual camera's Lens Size to rotate it! then use a reverse control variable (that is either 1 or -1 and is multiplied by horizontalInput) and activate it when camera is rotated 
ALSO USE A SEPERATE VIRTUAL CAMERA FOR THIS, AND SET THE BLEND TO EASE IN AND OUT FOR A COOL SWITCHING EFFECT.

make red goombas, same thing as normal ones but theyre speed is 4 times more

for pipe transitions use a second virtual camera and activate it, change the first camera's to standby mode in inspector.after entering a pipe ALSO HAVE A  PUBLIC VARIABLE FOR THE PIPE ENTRANCE,THAT LETS YOU CHOOSE THE CUSTOM CAMERA BLEND like cut,ease in, ease out, hard out, etc.
these are all inside the main camera's BRAIN component

for invisible walss, make a tilemap with blocks similar to gorund tilemap but turn off tilemap renderer

for slopes, just make an object with box collider that is tilted in Z axis by 30 degrees and static rigidbody, 
and put tiles on it. And then also rotate mario by 30 degree when on slope tiles.When on slopes,mario always sticks to the ground, no jumping or falling

death condition: you're outside the view of the camera AND lower than the camera's bottom boundary

for falling platforms use kinematic rigidbody or add physics material with 0 friction and check if the platforms falling speed is NOT bigger than mario's falling speed.
for the platform itself, start a coroutine on collision with marios feet that activates rigidbody(that causes them to fall)
if everything fails, turn off rigidbody when on platforms, and then turn it on again after jumping

platform effector 2D component can make platforms that be moved past from below!! use it and check the Use One Way box.

IF YOU HAVE PROBLEM WITH USING A TILE, SLICE IT IN THE EDITOR AND (MAKE SURE THE PIVOT POINT IS 0,0 OR TILE ANCHOR OF TILEMAP IS EQUAL TO ALL SPRITES PIVOT POINT)

use n64 thwomp sound, and add camera shake effect when it hits ground

use mafthf.slerp for flying koopa. flying enemies should change always look at marios direction
*****
ideas:
test autoscrolling
power to slowdown by pressing shift or f (you may need an item or power up for this)!
instead of a countdown timer, use a normal stopwatch timer thata doesnt kill you, you get medals based on your completion time on the levels, getting a gold medal
unlocks the hardcore version of that level! for some levels you can use a normal countdown timer IN ADDITION to normal timer too for a challenge.
use lens flare/ find interesting 2D graphic additions in unity
make secret areas (your can go through walls and the walls change opacity while youre inside them)
you can move to levels in map like 3d world. each level plays a single part of map song looped.
use Z coordinates to play parts of level in the background
you can use 2d light objects intensity to make interesting levels!
like super mario 3d world, collecting some cois reveals a series of others
double cherry mario
braid like gameplay (ability to reverse time)
Rotate the camera for reverse effect! like roman worlds V
whem mario looks up and down the camera also moves a little bit also maybe you can zoom in and out the camera with certain buttons (maybe make seperate animations for looking up and down)
use camera shake for a level where castle is getting destroyed
make zones
make enemy zones.You have to kill all enemies to pass the blockade
make bubbles that you can swim in
add tutorials like rayman legends
add yoshi
make enemies that act like spring when stomping (jumpforce is much bigger when stomping these enemies)
flame thrower,sword/ninja mario (like cat mario)
double cherry power up
use hammers as an item
make enemies that you can move like a normal rigidbody, and they dont hurt you.